To use the validation state we now have in our controls object in our state here, we probably want to
give some visual feedback to the user to mark invalid controls as such, maybe give them a red border
and a red background and we maybe also want to disable the submit button,
so let's do both.
Now keep in mind that our inputs are custom components, the default input component which we can find
under components UI default input.
There, we assign some styling and we can simply add another style now, invalid maybe in that component where
we set up how this input component should look like if it is invalid.
There I could set a background color of some red tone,
here's one I prepared #f9c0c0 and give it up border color of red maybe, just typing red
here, now this invalid
style should always be appended when the input is invalid
which is some information which we need to get from outside.
So I'll add invalid to this array here,
however it should not always be added, styles invalid by the way,
however it should not always be added.
I expect to get a property,
let's name it valid and if this is true, then I want to attach null here,
I don't want to add any extra styling but if it is false, then this case will kick in and it will add
my invalid styles,
so all we now need to do is pass the valid prop to the default input.
That should be easy because in the auth screen, we manage the validity,
each control we have in our state has the valid property,
so that's just information which we need to pass on to our children or to the default input.
So therefore here, I'll add another property
I can pass, valid and this simply is this state controls, in this case email valid, going to copy that
line and also add it to my other inputs like here,
the password
input and then of course down here,
also my confirm password
input. Now with that, if we save that and we reload the page,
we see all is red
but if I enter valid values here, then we actually have everything marked as such and this also correctly
updates whenever we enter something invalid.
The one issue is that if I reload this again, that we start with everything red.
Now this is not super user friendly so we should also keep in mind or keep track of whether the user
touched this input already or not,
so I'll go up to my state and add a new property to each of these controls after validation rules, maybe
touched which initially just falls, which means the user didn't even have a chance to enter or to
edit this
and then in my set state call in update input state, for the key we're working on,
I can simply set touched to true because this will only be called when the text changes so when the
user typed so he did touch it.
Now with this information, we can pass on this validity state to our default input and also pass
on whether it has been touched or not,
so I'll add a new prop to default input which is just this state controls, now here we're on password so
use this touched, I'm also going to copy this entire line, add it to confirm password and therefore
of course also target confirm password here and the same for the e-mail,
let's target e-mail here,
e-mail touched.
Now we need to handle this in default input,
there I now need to check not only if it's valid but if it's valid and if this touch prop is also set
to true.
This check now however is the wrong one,
we should now revert our logic, we should check if it's not valid and has been touched, in this case,
we want to add the invalid styles in all other cases,
so either it's valid or it simply wasn't touched yet,
we'll set it to null.
Now with that, if we reload this page, the invalid style is gone
and only if I enter something here, it is marked as such which is more user friendly.
Now let's also disable this submit button, here in auth.js if we have a look at the very button,
we got this button with background,
it's our custom button we added and there, we simply want to disable it whenever
well all our controls are invalid.
For this what I can do is I can pass a new property to this,
maybe we name it disabled,
you can name it whatever you want
and there I simply check if this state controls confirm password valid and all the others, so if all of
them are valid
and you could of course also create a new property in your state which you update whenever you type
into any of the inputs so that you have just one property you can check here, whatever you like.
So email also should be valid
and this state controls password should be valid.
So a lot of code but in the end, I'm just checking the validity of all the relevant inputs and then I'm binding
this to disabled,
so this is either true or false.
In button with background, I can now use this new prop to change the styling and to really disable it,
so for that what I can do is I want to change the style of my view if we're disabled,
so I'll add a new disabled property to my stylesheet here.
There I want to set the background color to some gray-ish look,
so maybe we use #eee here and I want to use the or set the text color to a darker gray maybe #aaa
and this could now be a look that looks rather good and disabled for example, maybe also set the border
color to this darker gray,
#aaa. So disabled
now should be added as a style if it is disabled,
well here we simply add it if props disabled is true therefore, if that is the case we add styles disabled
otherwise we add no new style.
We also want to really disable it,
so what I will do is I will actually not return touchable object if the button is disabled but just
this view which is the styling but without touchable isn't touchable.
So therefore I'll check if props disabled is true, in which case I'll return just the content without
touchable. Now
with that, we're almost there but I think I made a mistake here in auth screen, disabled here of course should
not be true if they're all valid instead disabled should be true is any of them is invalid,
so I'll change this to or and then simply add an exclamation mark in front of each check,
so if either of them is not valid, then disabled will be true.
Additionally in the button with background, I need to add one tiny change, we got our enable and disabled style here
where I also want to set the text color,
now that is applied to a view though so don't do this, don't add it here to disabled,
let's add a disabled text instead
where I now set the color and this disabled text property should be added to the text node here,
so here I'll add a style configuration and check if props disabled,
if this is true then I want to add my styles disabled text color
otherwise I'll set it to null and I will add no particular style. With that,
let's go back and reload our application,
you see it's now disabled, it doesn't look clickable.
If I now start typing here and I confirm the last field,
now we got an enabled button again
and with that, we're giving the user a visual feedback about the authentication status.
Now with that we got all the validation thing done,
now let's also make sure that clicking the submit button does more than just load a new page, at least in
theory and that this switch to login button does something too.